# OCT Image Denosing by GAN
Retinal OCT Image Denoising Using Deep neural network with Generative Adversarial Network.


Optical coherence tomography (OCT) is the most widely used imaging technique that is used for any retinal diseases such as any age-related macular degeneration diabetic retinopathy, vitreous traction etc. by displaying the cross sectional view of human eye. It also helps the ophthalmologist to evaluate disorders of the optic nerve as well. Because of the coherent nature i.e. multiple forward and backward scattering of light waves from retinal tissues it contains multiplicative nature granular type speckle noise. Due to present of this noise in the OCT image, accurately identifying the exact disorders is obstructed. So, it is very necessary to design an effective OCT image denoising technique to get rid from this. In this paper we have designed a deep learning based OCT image denoising technique using Generative Adversarial Network (GAN) that contains a generator neural network and a discriminator neural network. The generator will generate the denoise image form input noisy image and the discriminator acts as a classifier and a weight regulator that determine whether the input image is real or fake(generated denoise image). Through this adversarial (generator discriminator) training process the generator network weight gets updated and produced denoised image with much similar ground truth denoise image. We have used an UNet shaped Res-Autoencoder as the generator model and a CNN model as an discriminator. To evaluate our proposed model we have used Peak Signal to Noise Ratio (PSNR) and Mean Square Error (MSE) as an evaluation matrices along with some traditional image denoising filter namely Wavelet-transform, Bilateral, Non-local Means (NLM) and BM3D filter. Our proposed model has given 2-3% increased PSNR score than all traditional image denoising filter. So this proposed method can be used for an effective alternative tool for ophthalmologist to show more insight view of an OCT image.


